README.md, before:

# Chartreuse: Alembic migration within kubernetes

Chartreuse is a wrapper around Alembic to ease, detect and automate alembic migrations on deployed applications.

Chartreuse is made to work as Helm hooks. You need to use Chartreuse a a sub-chart of your project.

# Install

This Python package requires a `Custom Resource Definition`:

    $ kubectl apply -f customResourceDescription-expecteddeploymentscales.yaml

# Configuration

TBD

## How it works

The steps are:

 - Pre-deployment job (i.e a script that is run n kubernetes BEFORE deploying the new version of your app in kubernetes):
    - Detect if an alembic/eslembic migration is required, if not, exit
    - Stop all celeries, nginx-uwsgi, cron by scaling down all related deployments to 0
 - Run normal kubernetes deployment (which could re-scale-up deployments, no guarantee here)
 - Post-deployment job:
    - Detect if an alembic/eslembic migration is required, if not, exit
    - Stop all celeries, nginx-uwsgi, cron by scaling down all related deployments to 0
    - Do alembic/eslembic migration
    - Restart all pods that have been stopped before

Commit message:

chore: Update .gitlab-ci.yml
feature: Try to make upgrading/installing process less risky and more explicit

README.md, after:

# Chartreuse: Alembic migration within kubernetes

Chartreuse is a wrapper around [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org) and [Eslembic](https://gitlab.cayzn.com/wiremind/commons/eslembic) to ease,
 detect and automate migrations on deployed applications.
 
Chartreuse is made to work as Helm hooks. You need to use Chartreuse a a sub-chart of your project.

# Install

This Python package requires a `Custom Resource Definition`:

    $ kubectl apply -f customResourceDescription-expecteddeploymentscales.yaml

# Configuration

TBD

## How it works

The state diagram of your application while upgrading using Helm and using Chartreuse for your migrations is as follows:

![alt text](doc/chartreuse_sd.png)

- The numbers in circles give the process steps when all go well.
- The diagram shows what could happen during an application
upgrade (starting from a version `V`) but the same scenario
applies to applications when installing them for the first time
(consider version `V` to be scratch).

- The diagram has been drawn using the free online software https://draw.io, the 
source code is located at `doc/chartreuse_sd.xml`, feel free
to correct it or make it more understandable.

- In the end of an install/upgrade, whatever its state: succeeded or failed, make sure
that the pods were scaled up as expected, if it isn't the case, this should be done manually.
